docs: document webhooks (#789)
encoredev/encore: docs/deploy/webhooks.md

---
seotitle: Subscribe to Encore webhooks and events
seodesc: The Encore platform lets you define webhooks to react to events in your application, enabling you to build powerful integrations.
title: Webhooks & Events
subtitle: Set up webhooks to react to Encore Platform events
infobox: {
  title: "Webhooks",
  import: "go.encore.dev/webhooks",
}
---

Webhooks provide a way for notifications to be delivered to an HTTP endpoint of your choice whenever certain events happen within Encore.
For example, you can set up a webhook to be notified whenever a deployment starts or finishes.

> Webhooks are defined on a per-application basis, and are configured under Settings -> Webhooks in the Encore Platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Webhooks are defined on a per-application basis, and are configured under Settings -> Webhooks in the Cloud Dashboard.
```

	payload, err := io.ReadAll(req.Body)
	if err != nil {
		// ... handle error
    }
    event, err := webhooks.ParseEvent(payload, req.Header.Get("X-Encore-Signature"), secrets.EncoreWebhookSecret)
    if err != nil {
        // ... handle error
    }

    switch data := event.Data.(type) {
    case *webhooks.RolloutStartedEvent:
        // ... handle rollout started event
    case *webhooks.RolloutCompletedEvent:
        // ... handle rollout completed event
    }
}
```

<Callout type="info">

Note that the example above is written as an Encore API endpoint, but that's not required.
The same code works in any Go HTTP server, and the `go.encore.dev/webhooks` library does not depend on
any Encore-specific functionality.

</Callout>

## Checking webhook signatures

Since the webhook endpoint is publicly accessible, it is important to validate that the request is coming from Encore.
To do so, Encore generates a secret for each webhook, which is used to sign each request.

The webhook secret can be found on the webhook details page by admins.

If you use the [go.encore.dev/webhooks](https://pkg.go.dev/go.encore.dev/webhooks) library then signature validation

> is handled automatically, but it's also possible to verify the signature manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is handled automatically, but it's also possible to verify the signature manually (see below).
```
